README.md, before:

# exercises
## An open source exercise list curated from [exercemus](https://exercemus.com), [wger.de](https://github.com/wger-project/wger), and [exercises.json](https://github.com/wrkout/exercises.json)

After struggling to find an easy-to-use, open source exercise list for exercemus, I decided to curate this open source list. The initial list was created from wger.de and exercises.json (big thanks to these projects). In the future, as exercises are modified and submitted to exercemus by users, they will also be added to this repository for all to enjoy. It is my personal belief that data like that provided here should be readily accessible by all.

You can use the exercise data directly in your code from here:
https://raw.githubusercontent.com/exercemus/exercises/main/exercises-minified.json

## NOTICE
This list is still a WIP, so please expect duplicates until I can manually remove them. However, feel free to use the data as-is.

## Format
`exercises.json` has the following fields:
- `categories`, a `list<string>` which defines the different exercise categories
- `equipment`, a `list<string>` which defines the different exercise equipment
- `muscles`, a `list<string>` which defines the different muscles
- `muscle_groups`, a `map<string, list<string>>` which defines which muscle group corresponds to which muscles (useful for filtering exercises by muscle group)
- `exercises`, a `list<exercise>` (see below for schema) that has all of the exercises

Each `exercise` has the following schema:
- `category`, from `categories` above
- `name`, as a `string` with no underscores and basic characters (url safe)
- `aliases` as a `list<string>?` for other names of the exercise
- `description` as a `string?`
- `instructions` as a `list<string>?`
- `tips` as a `list<string>?`
- `equipment` as a `list<string>`
- `primary_muscles` as a `list<string>`
- `secondary_muscles` as a `list<string>`
- `tempo` as a `string?` (`3-1-1-0`, for example)
- `images` as a `list<string>?` of urls
- `video` as a `string?` url
- `variation_id` as an `int?` to link exercise variations together
- `license_author` as a `string?` (who submitted the exercise online)
- `license` as a `map<string, string>?`:
  - `full_name` as a `string`
  - `short_name` as a `string`
  - `url` as a `string`

## Licensing Notes
All code in this repository is under the MIT License to enable free use. However, all exercises in this repository have a license associated with them that you must follow. Only exercises with a (relatively) free open source license are included in this repository, but care must be taken to ensure that you follow each exercise's licensing requirements. *THIS IS NOT ADVICE ON HOW TO PROPERLY HANDLE THESE LICENSES*, but this typically involves just displaying the author, license, and link to the license alongside each exercise.

## Source Data Structure Notes
Each of the source directories (`exercemus/`, `exercises_json/`, and `wger/`) have their own process that creates an `exercises.json` in the same directory that is in the final format ready to be integrated in the main list.
### [exercemus](https://exercemus.com)
- Coming soon

### [exercises.json](https://github.com/wrkout/exercises.json)
The data file created from the repository as of July 24th, 2022 is in `exercises-original.json`.
`python3 parser.py` in `exercises_json/` will create the corresponding `exercises.json`.

### [wger.de](https://github.com/wger-project/wger)
The following data files were created by `python3 parser.py` in `wger/`:
- `all_data.json` contains all data that I parsed from wger.de in an easier format
- `all_exercises.json` contains all (ready-to-use) exercises from wger.de
- `exercises.json` contains all (ready-to-use) English exercises from wger.de

Commit message:

Updated to allow for manual review

README.md, after:

# exercises
## An open source exercise list curated from [exercemus](https://exercemus.com), [wger.de](https://github.com/wger-project/wger), and [exercises.json](https://github.com/wrkout/exercises.json)
### You can see the final results in [the exercemus exercise library](https://exercem.us/exercises).

After struggling to find an easy-to-use, open source exercise list for exercemus, I decided to curate this open source list. The initial list was created from wger.de and exercises.json (big thanks to these projects). In the future, as exercises are modified and submitted to exercemus by users, they will also be added to this repository for all to enjoy. It is my personal belief that data like that provided here should be readily accessible by all.

You can use the exercise data directly in your code from here (yes, it is really this simple):
https://raw.githubusercontent.com/exercemus/exercises/main/exercises-minified.json

## NOTICE
This list is still a WIP, so please expect duplicates (until ~September 2022) until I can manually remove them. However, feel free to use the data as-is.

## Format
`exercises.json` has the following fields:
- `categories`, a `list<string>` which defines the different exercise categories
- `equipment`, a `list<string>` which defines the different exercise equipment
- `muscles`, a `list<string>` which defines the different muscles
- `muscle_groups`, a `map<string, list<string>>` which defines which muscle group corresponds to which muscles (useful for filtering exercises by muscle group)
- `exercises`, a `list<exercise>` (see below for schema) that has all of the exercises

Each `exercise` has the following schema:
- `category`, from `categories` above
- `name`, as a `string` with no underscores and (url safe) characters
- `aliases` as a `list<string>?` for other names of the exercise
- `description` as a `string?`
- `instructions` as a `list<string>?`
- `tips` as a `list<string>?`
- `equipment` as a `list<string>`
- `primary_muscles` as a `list<string>`
- `secondary_muscles` as a `list<string>`
- `tempo` as a `string?` (`3-1-1-0`, for example)
- `images` as a `list<string>?` of urls
- `video` as a `string?` url (YouTube used when possible)
- `variation_id` as an `int?` to link exercise variations together
- `license_author` as a `string?` (who submitted the exercise online)
- `license` as a `map<string, string>?`:
  - `full_name` as a `string`
  - `short_name` as a `string`
  - `url` as a `string`

## Licensing Notes
All code in this repository is under the MIT License to enable free use. However, all exercises in this repository have a license associated with them that you must follow. Only exercises with a (relatively) free open source license are included in this repository, but care must be taken to ensure that you follow each exercise's licensing requirements. *THIS IS NOT ADVICE ON HOW TO PROPERLY HANDLE THESE LICENSES*, but this typically involves just displaying the author, license, and link to the license alongside each exercise.

## Source Data Structure Notes
Each of the source directories (`exercises_json/` and `wger/`) have their own process that creates an `exercises.json` in the same directory that is in the final format ready to be integrated in the main list. `/combine.py` combines the `wger/exercises.json` and `exercises_json/exercises.json` sources into `combined.json`, for manual review and merging. Then, `exercises.json` can be manually created and updated. In hindsight, I should've opted to use a more structured build system, but this works well enough.

### [exercises.json](https://github.com/wrkout/exercises.json)
The data file created from the repository as of July 24th, 2022 is in `exercises-original.json`.
`python3 parser.py` in `exercises_json/` will create the corresponding `exercises.json`.

### [wger.de](https://github.com/wger-project/wger)
The following data files were created by `python3 parser.py` in `wger/`:
- `all_data.json` contains all data that I parsed from wger.de in an easier format
- `all_exercises.json` contains all (ready-to-use) exercises from wger.de
- `exercises.json` contains all (ready-to-use) English exercises from wger.de
